let's turn straight away to breaking
news regarding the Middle East because
the UK foreign secretary has just
announced a partial suspension of export
arms licenses to Israel he made that
announcement in the House of Commons in
the last 20 minutes or so a partial
suspension it covers 30 arms export
licenses uh we will play you the clip of
David Lamy making that announcement in
the comment here in the next little
while but more pressure clearly on
Israel and the Prime Minister we've seen
those comments in the last hour or so
from Joe Biden saying Benjamin Netanyahu
is not doing enough to actually secure
that new hostage and ceasefire deal now
the UK foreign secretary making this
announcement and of course all the while
today we've had that general strike with
thousands of people on the streets
adding yet more pressure on Israel's
prime minister well as I said that
announcement just made in the last
little while from David Lamy so let's
hear him speaking there in the British
House of
Commons it is with regret that I inform
the house today the assessment I have
received leaves me unable to conclude
anything other than that for certain UK
arms exports to Israel there does exist
a clear risk that they might be used to
commit or facilitate a serious violation
of international humanitarian
law I have informed my right honorable
friend the business and trade secretary
and he is therefore today announcing the
suspension of around 30 from a total of
approximately
350 to Israel as required under the
export controls act these include
equipment that we assess is for use in
the current conflict in
Gaza such as in important components
which go into military aircraft
including fighter aircraft helicopters
and drones as well as items which
facilitate ground targeting and for
transparency this government is
publishing a summary of our assessment
that was David Lamy speaking in the last
few minutes we'll talk to our political
correspondent live here on the program
here after 5 o'